All of the previous revolutions in tech,
internet, right? Like social media, like
whatever have been totally meaningless
to biotechnology and biopharma. Like,
yeah, it's nice. We communicate slightly
better, whatever. It's just some like
back office IT crap, right? Like
not this. Like like this this is is
actually going to change the
fundamentals of how we do science and
and our big science industries like
biopharma are going to get disrupted. I
I really believe that and that's not
been true for [music] the last 30 years
of tech.
>> [music]
>> We are thrilled to have Jason Kelly,
founder and CEO of Ginkgo Bioworks with
us today. Thank you for joining us.
>> Yeah, thanks Anja. Uh so you started
Ginkgo Bioworks in 2008 with the goal of
making biology programmable. And
programmable has taken on completely
different meaning in the era of AI. So
I'm very excited for the conversation
today. Maybe tell us about the journey
so far.
I mean uh I'll I'll do the Ginkgo
journey journey in short, right? Yeah,
we started in 2008 but we didn't
actually raise any capital until 2014.
So we bootstrapped for 4 or 5 years.
Which like if you're not a bio person,
this doesn't make sense but in biotech
VC, they really don't like like young
people for example. So we had started
the company like straight out of grad
school. It was 2008. We weren't trying
to make a drug. We were like totally
uninvestable.
>> Were you full-time focused on the
company for those first 6 years? Oh
yeah. Okay.
>> yeah. We were basically like applying We
did government grants and service
business. It was like pretty brutal
start. And then summer 14, Sam Altman,
now Mr. Famous,
writes this blog post cuz he just took
over YC and he's like, "Hey, I think the
Silicon Valley model can work for like
deep tech." You know, nuclear fission,
biotech, material science. And so I
wrote him an email. I was like, "Oh man,
like thank you for I mean we're we're
like 5 years old. I got 15 people in a
lab in Boston. We don't make any sense
for YC but this is like a oasis in the
desert, you know? Like nobody will
invest in weird companies like this."
And he's like, "No, you got to meet me."
So I flew out to San Francisco, met him.
He's like, "You should do YC." I was
like, "I should do YC."
>> [laughter]
>> So then we did YC. So we kind of that
was sort of when you know, if you really
want to mark Ginkgo from like having
capital, it was sort of in 2014. And how
has the product changed since 2014? Oh,
well, so the mission hasn't changed but
the product has gone all over the place,
different different roads. So we've
always wanted to make biology easier to
engineer. That was the idea. And so if
you're you know, this is a very much
>> Hang on. I remember make biology
programmable. Has it have the words
always been make it easier to engineer?
Cuz I feel like that's a slight
>> always when I was talking to Sequoia, it
was always like this the the computer
science wrapper on make biology easier
to engineer. But yeah, that was always
our mission. Okay, got it. But the
analogy is solid, right? So you know,
DNA is code, right? It's ATCs and Gs,
not zeros and ones. It's really our only
other like coded product other than
computers is really biotechnology. And
so the core idea of Ginkgo was, well, if
you could design DNA code, you can
program cells to do things. And cells
are you know, they're programmable like
computers, right? But unlike computers,
which just move information around,
cells move atom around. So if you can
build whatever you want, that's we think
ultimately going to be a huge market, a
huge opportunity. But the challenge is
our ability to program cells today is
really bad. And so how could you fix
that? That was the core idea behind
Ginkgo. And how has the product itself
changed over time?
>> Yeah, so the way we we had to market it
first was we're going to try to build
what we called foundries, which was sort
of a centralized laboratory that would
kind of automate the lab work associated
with doing biotech. And and the reason
again, if you're a computer scientist,
the way to think about this is if you
want to compile and debug DNA code,
that's a physical process. Yep. Right?
So you're like ATCGGG, like we have to
do phosphoramidite chemistry. You got to
build the piece of DNA you want and then
put it into a cell, grow the cell and
test the cell and that's your kind of
compile debug cycle. Does that make
sense? And so one half of what we worked
on technologically was, how do we make
that cheaper?
Right? Cuz if you want to get better and
doing this, you got to do more of it
faster and for less expense. And then
the second thing we worked on was, how
do you get better at your programming?
In other words, like that design you
choose to test in the lab, how do you
improve the odds that it does what you
want? So sort of like get better at
design the biology and make it cheaper
to try things. We're like basically for
the last 15 years, the twin activities.
And in an era of the AI, I see you see
opportunities on both sides for that
today and that's we've shifted a little
bit over the years in terms of how we do
it. Um but though does that make sense
that you kind of have And roughly
speaking, the design piece sounds like
it's a bit more software. The testing
piece sounds like it's a bit more
hardware
controlled by software. Very much. Yeah,
that's exactly right. And today the
folks leading on the design side, you
might see
companies like Chai Bio for example like
who has like these protein models Bolts.
Um the folks at Arc Institute are really
just came out today with a paper we'll
call it about Evo 2, which is like a a
genomic model. There's a whole community
of people now trying to solve the
problem of designing biology with AI.
The big change at Ginkgo over the last 2
years is I've kind of stopped working on
that problem. Mhm. I'm like, we had our
own approach to solving it. It's hard,
right? Like designing cells is tricky.
We're going to try to solve this half of
the out of the problem, which is how do
you make it cheaper and faster to try
things in the lab and how can you We can
talk a little bit more. We did a project
with OpenAI. How could you have AI
models help you do that? Is anybody else
focused on the back end, so to speak? I
kind of think about design as the front
end of the process
>> Yeah. And testing is the back end. And
when I say anybody else, obviously
people do this. Is anybody else with a
similar approach focused on that part of
the market? Um you you're there's some
new companies, right? So there's
companies like Madra out here as one
that's doing it with like robotic arms
trying to accelerate it. You have like
the life science tools industry but I
would say it does not have
a Silicon Valley attitude about things
in the sense that they're not really
trying to change the fundamentals of how
you do it. They're sort of like just
providing the next tool to people doing
it the way they've always done it.
And so we've always been this kind of
unique force trying to say, "Hey, is
there a new platform?" Right? Is there
something like the jump to planar
semiconductor manufacturing in
electronics at the beginning of Intel?
You know, like is there some some way we
should just do all this stuff
differently that could make it way
better in the future? And that's always
been the Ginkgo like what I think is
unique about what we've been doing in
the last 10 years. What catalyzed the
focus on this part of the business? On
the on this half of the house?
>> Yeah.
Yeah, I think [clears throat] this is an
engineering problem and I don't think
this is a science problem. Okay.
>> So and I went after both initially and I
kind of took my licks for that. And I
think the the good thing about an
engineering problem is you can
ultimately like render it to dust,
right? A science problem, I think is
great if you hit it but it's much more
unpredictable. And so in this era of
Ginkgo, I've got like the resources
marshaled at this point to go after this
and kind of see it through. And so
that's why you see me pointing in that
direction.
>> And with the efforts that we see with
the Arc Institute and others of that
ilk, what inning are we in, so to speak?
Like is the ecosystem around the science
problem Good question.
>> going to start producing meaningful
results soon other than papers? Uh it's
a good question. I I think the the hard
part about designing biology So biology
is amazing, by the way, right? Like just
as a substrate again, right? Like if you
think about what's happening inside of a
cell, it is producing, you know, Intel
or now Nvidia TSMC level caliber atomic
placement basically for free, Yeah.
>> right? It's it's able to do molecular
assembly. It self-repairs. It
self-replicates. Like as a as a as a
physical substrate, it's insane.
It is the product of 4 billion years of
evolution.
So the complexity embedded in a cell is
actually a lot bigger I think than
people like give it credit for. And so
there's a market there. Now that said,
you know, all of you know, more than
half of your drugs today are produced by
biotechnology. We cure cancer. We do
this. We have huge value coming out of
even with the tool the limited tools we
have today. So you don't have to solve
the whole problem
>> Yeah. over here to create a lot of
value. You just have to be better than
how we do it today. Does that make
sense? And so I think they have a really
good opportunities already in the near
term with all the protein models. You're
seeing that, right? Like Chai just did a
big deal with Lilly. Like there's real
opportunities there I think right in the
near term. Yeah. Um does that make
sense? Mhm. So speaking of OpenAI and
Mr. Altman,
>> Yeah.
>> uh you recently announced a partnership
research result with them. Can you say
more about that? Yeah, okay. So this is
this is pretty exciting I think for the
the folks that are following AI. It's
pretty neat. So basically what we did
was we took our we call it an autonomous
lab, right? And so
I can talk more about this but the short
answer is if you really want to drive
efficiency on the lab side, you need to
get the human beings off of the lab
bench.
Right? So the way we do and this is in
true in biotechnology, it's kind of true
for science broadly. The way we do
science today, 95% of science, the stuff
that's not theoretical. So not math You
know, what everybody's working on math.
Like let's work on Terrence Tao. Let's
get a Terrence Tao in a box or whatever,
right? Like you know, like
the reason is you just simulate all that
stuff on a computer. Let's play chess.
You know, right? Like
>> [laughter]
>> no kidding, right? But it but if you
look at the majority of like what we
spend money on in the United States and
and just generally across the world in
science, it's largely on experimental
work.
>> Yep. And the reason is if you want to
learn something new about the world,
which is what science is fundamentally,
you have to go out usually and like poke
it. You have a prior You have an
opinion, a hypothesis but you got to go
test it to actually figure it out. So
it's experimental science that moves the
needle in my view. And so the question
was, could a reasoning model do the work
of experimental science if you gave it a
robotic lab? That was the question. And
the answer was, yeah, it's actually
pretty damn good. So we did basically
the way the project worked was we had
there's a
biochemistry problem called cell-free
synthesis. Okay.
>> So you take a piece of DNA, ATCGGG,
right? If you were to put it in your
cell right now, remember like
central dogma in high school, right?
Like it's like DNA makes RNA makes a
protein, right? And so you put that DNA
into a cell and it'll make a protein.
Well, you can do a thing called
cell-free where you pop a cell open,
take the guts, put it in a test tube,
and then add the DNA to that. And
because the guts are still there, it
makes the protein. Mhm. So this is kind
of like it's like the world's smallest
3D printer or something, right? Okay?
And so scientists use this, they try to
optimize, it's very expensive usually.
And so there was a paper that came out
of Stanford from my Jewett's lab in
August that set the benchmark for like
how cheap people have been able to do
cell-free protein synthesis.
And so we said, "All right, let's try to
optimize that
with the model." And so we gave the
model we did each round we would do 100
384 well plates. Okay? So each well in a
plate is like a little kind of cup of
liquid and you can do an experiment in
there. And so we gave it, you know,
30,000 experiments to run and after it
would run those experiments, gets the
data back and designs another set.
So after four rounds of that, we beat
state of the art and after six rounds,
we beat it by 40%. And so that was a I
think it's the most interesting sort of
model doing experimental work result
that's been shown to date um
by a lot in my view.
>> 40% was a function of what? Just faster
cycle time or No. more intelligent
experiment design?
>> Yeah, like how did it beat the state of
the art? Uh so this is this is my point.
This is like my my larger point about
science cuz I think we're going to do
science differently in the future in my
view based based on what I'm starting to
see here. So
what does a scientist do when they're
doing experimental work? They're coming
up with an idea and then they're trying
to design an experiment to ask a
question about that idea. Then they're
going to run the experiment, take the
data back, interpret it, and then poke
again based on what they learned. And
they're going to go through that process
a few times to like resolve something.
Oh, this is how
you know, whatever this cancer works.
This is how this piece of materials, you
know, works. This is this. This is that.
And and so that cycling
is just logic. Yeah. Right? And so it
doesn't require you to model biology or
simulate anything. It's not that half of
the house. It just requires you to be
almost like a programmer. Like you need
to be logical, run through set of
things, do data analysis, and draw
conclusions. And so that like that's all
it has to do. Does that make sense?
Yeah. And so we didn't do anything other
than that. Okay. Right? What really let
it break through wasn't that it was so
smart, it was that it could run
experiments. And the question was just
could it design them like a scientist
could? Mhm. The answer was
yeah, hell yeah, it could. And so now I
think that opens a real interesting
question about like how we do science in
the United States. Well, and it's easy
to imagine a version of the future in
which the you know, the scientific
method, the design, and the hypothesis
testing, and all that is done by
reasoning models of some sort. And the
actual testing is done by
you know, you know, autonomous labs.
Yeah. What's wrong with that vision of
the future? And if and if that is the
right vision of the future, how far out
is it?
I mean I think this is how it's going to
happen. I I I really do. Like like the I
mean I'm probably more substantially
more aggro on this than like the average
scientist today.
>> [laughter]
>> But like
it's So let I'll just explain like why
why I think it if you like had a
heads-up competition, which I want to do
this, right? So
>> then tell me how the average scientist
would push back and say like, "No, no,
no, it's not going to happen that way
because Right. So I think what what the
scientist will push back on is like
this thing can
just be as creative or as me or
something, right? Which I actually I I'm
sympathetic to that. Yeah.
I'm not saying it's going to be more
creative.
I'm saying
uh
>> to be way more creative. I'm saying you
don't Yeah, no. [laughter]
Not that Silicon Valley. I live in
Boston.
I'm saying uh it
it can run a lab 24 hours a day. Yeah.
It uh I'll give you another example.
Like the way science works today is you
would have a lab, you'd have a lab, I'd
have a lab. We're all working on the
same area. Let's say we're working on
like Alzheimer's. Yeah. You have a
hypothesis, you have a hypothesis, I
have a hypothesis. We each kind of
pursue it. We're collecting data over
the course of a year or two. And then
based on what I see at the end, I write
a paper. And when it comes out in the
public's literature, you get to read it.
And you get to read it. And you're all
doing the same thing. So we're kind of
like exchanging information every year
or two. And you're I'm not getting to
see every experiment you did, by the
way. I'm getting like the distilled
output of what you think you saw over
two years. Does that make sense? Yeah.
All right. So let's contrast that to
like what I think should start to happen
now based on what I saw with this open
AI project. What I think should happen
now is you should have a robotic lab
that has every piece of equipment that
we all have in our labs. So it can run
any experiment you want. We can talk in
a minute. That's actually a pretty
technically difficult problem, but let's
just
wave that away. Okay, solved. All right,
great. So then I'm going to put 100 AI
scientists on top of this thing. Yeah.
Each one is going to pursue a different
hypothesis for Alzheimer's.
All right, great. And they're going to
run their experiments just like you
would in your lab that day. But at the
end of the day,
they're going to pass the data on those
experiments, like what experiment they
ran and the raw data that came off it to
the other 100 AIs. Yep. Daily. Every
[__] day. Okay? And it And so they're
going to learn from each other. Like
you're even though your hypothesis is
different, we're working in the same
area. So your failed result might like
for example, say your experiment went
the wrong way from your hypothesis, that
data might be relevant to my hypothesis
and I would never see that normally.
Does that make sense? Yep. And so that's
all just shugging along. And every week
it dumps uh you know, a lab notebook
entry or a like a mini paper, like a
conclusion about what the 100 of them
have figured out that week that we can
all read and see and use that. We can
direct. We can say this. Hey, cut that
line of research or whatever. And so
like that's number one. I think the
information sharing and like the ability
to handle like really broad context
across a lot of projects for the AIs is
just better than it's just socially
different even than how we do it today.
Does that make sense? That's unfair
advantage number one. Yep. Okay, unfair
advantage number two. If you look at how
we spend money in science. Remember all
this stuff like the NIH was like
what's up with the indirect rates at the
at the academic universities and all
this hullabaloo, right? Well, what's an
indirect rate? Well, it's basically
paying for manual laboratories.
That's what it pays for. Mhm. Okay?
You've got these labs and they're there
24/7, but they're used five days a week.
Yep. Okay? Uh they have equipment, but
every lab all three of our labs, we have
same copies of the same equipment. Yep.
Cuz we all got to do the same work. We
don't share each other's. No, no, no. I
have like a door in my lab. Only my lab
gets to use it. Your lab uses yours. So
we have all low utilization rate of our
equipment.
It's just how it works. Okay, right? And
so have a very inefficient, like if you
look at the spending on research and
this is true the 60 to 80 billion
dollars a year that biopharma spends or
the 40 billion that NIH spends,
less than 5% is on the reagents. Mhm.
Everything is on overhead is basically
overhead. The people, the regulatory,
the lab space. Mhm. If we were running
it efficiently, you would budget a
research program at the NIH not on
indirect and heads and everything else,
but just on the reagents. Mhm. Cuz
that's like the usage base pricing of
science. Yeah.
>> Because to actually do experimental
work, I have to consume some chemicals.
I have to consume a piece of plastic
plateware. Like whatever the hell it is.
Like I'm actually doing atoms in the
physical world. I got to burn some stuff
up. That should be the dominant cost.
It's the opposite right now. Yes. It's
like less than 5%. So the other
advantage those AI have AIs will have is
if they're able to run robotic labs,
now they're running where 90% of the
cost of a research project goes to the
reagents.
>> Yes. Oh my god. Right? So that's like a
10x increase in the amount of data per
dollar that you're getting compared to
how we do it today. Yeah. So I think you
combine those two things and but without
the AIs even being smarter, right? They
can even be dumber than the scientists,
I think they win. Mhm. I really think
they win. And so I think we got to
reevaluate like how we fund what we fund
with the NIH. I think every biopharma
head of R&D needs to care about this.
And like And I think there's a blind
spot. By the way, like we did YC. I know
all the tech people. I know the tech you
know, CEOs. I've always been adjacent to
this stuff, right? All of the previous
revolutions in tech, internet, right?
Like social media, like whatever have
been totally meaningless to
biotechnology and biopharma. Like yeah,
it's nice. We communicate slightly
better or whatever. It's just some like
back office IT crap, right? Like
not this. Like like this this is is
actually going to change the
fundamentals of how we do science and
and our big science industries like
biopharma are going to get disrupted. I
I really believe that. And that's not
been true for the last 30 years of tech.
>> Our our partner Constantine has a good
framework for that. He talks about how
there are revolutions in computation and
revolutions in communication. Yes.
Communication is about the distribution
of information. Computation is about the
processing of information. Yes. And what
you're talking about here is just a
different way to process the
information. Like a
And so the last several revolutions have
been about the distribution side of the
equation, which doesn't get to the core
of what it is you're doing. Completely
agree. That And that's I think
fundamentally true. And And so again, I
think the leaders
biopharma companies and the And also the
leaders of research universities and
these people that are are in the
business of doing science to produce
either products or for the government,
Yeah.
cannot ignore this. They cannot ignore
AI. It It is It is just different. Yeah.
I'm I'm telling you, I'm a person who
has been adjacent to this crap for 15,
20 years now and this is the [laughter]
first time I've like uh the
tech guys finally did something cool.
Yeah.
And just so you understand, like so you
think AI is the catalyzing force behind,
you know, cloud labs should be a thing.
Nobody really ever moved to them, but
like AI will be the reason they move.
>> Yeah, well, we can talk about cloud
labs, yeah. So let's talk about
autonomous labs and then I'll explain
the cloud. All right. So why has it been
hard? Right? Like like
the average tech person's look at how
science is done where you have literally
PhD trained people. These are brilliant
people. Yeah. Paid decent amount of
money.
Standing I I I did a PhD at MIT in
bioengineering. It's five years of
moving liquids around a lab bench
[laughter] by hand. I swear to god. Like
like it it is like
like like my friends from undergrad just
like they would never, right? Like you
know, right? Like it's ridiculous you
would do like manual labor, right? Like
absurdity, right? In our group.
[laughter] But the But like that's what
you have to you have to do that if you
want to play
at the edge of science, you got to do
physical work. And so you that's what
you learn to do. Okay. And so it's like
well everyone in in Silicon Valley is
like
Well, just automate it, bro. Like you
know, like like why don't we just do
that? Okay. So why is it why is it hard?
All right. And the reason it's hard is
it's
like the technical like automation term
is like high mix low volume work.
>> Mhm. Yeah. Okay. And this is true at
like places like Hadrian today for
example that are working on this on the
manufacturing side industrial. High mix
low volume is hard to automate.
>> Yep. Historically. All right. And my
like transportation analogy that I've
been giving to people in bio is like
okay. So imagine on the Y axis you have
like level of automation. Yep. And then
on the X axis, okay, you have like
flexibility like that variability the
mix and what you're being you're asking
it to do. So in transportation
low mix high auto automation that's like
a subway.
Sit down, takes you away, right? Like
you know, maybe you like
don't have to do anything but you got to
want to go to one of the stops on that
subway line. Yep.
Low automation
high variability that's car. Yep.
>> All right. Hands on the wheel, foot on
the pedal, take you right to your house
or the grocery store and that's what the
transportation system looked like for
the last 100 years until thank you very
much, you know, Google we got Waymo up
here in the corner where you get the
flexibility you know, the the automation
of a subway but the flexibility of a
car. Okay. And and it's so surprising
that we don't even call it automation
anymore. We make up a new word. We call
it autonomous. Autonomous car. Because
the way I look at it is since the
industrial revolution we basically been
automating everything that is low mix.
That's like low variable from the loom
on. Yep. Okay, right? And we just hit a
wall.
And AI we hit a wall on flexibility of
what you can do and AI pushes us past
it. Yep.
That is like every part of the physical
like our physical infrastructure post
industrial revolution everything has to
get looked at again with that lens as we
move up the variability. Does that make
sense? Sure. And so that's what we're so
so that's the tricky bit in like lab
land. We actually have automation but
it's like subways. Yes.
>> It's just repeat the same experiment you
know, at at a diagnostic company like
Quest they would have automation if
you're a high throughput screening in
pharma there's automation but it can't
do the variability. So 99% of the work
just like 99% of miles traveled is in
cars 99% of lab work is still at the
freaking bench and that's what you got
to fix.
>> And what's and so like the Waymo analogy
is an interesting one um because it's
now such a magical thing that so many
people have gotten to experience.
>> Yes. And in that case
you know, you kind of had your sensor
suite, you know, you have your radar and
your lidar and your cameras. Yeah. You
know, then you had your software suite
with the perception and the planning and
the actuation which then had to tie back
into you know, whatever vehicle
manufacturer you're working with and
then there are gazillion corner cases
that you have to simulate cuz you can't
get enough of them in the real world.
Like what would that set of words be for
your world? Yeah. Yeah. Great question.
What are all of these specific things
that are hard to get right?
>> 100% And and again if you're like trying
to generalize the problem of bringing
automation to autonomy it's going to be
different in every domain. So for cars
the hard part is the physical world is
changing. Every mile you drive the world
Oh my god I'm in a new place, right?
Like this one has a comb. It's raining.
Like whatever, right? Like that's not
the problem in the lab at all.
Lab I can make it it's my lab every day
it's the same [__] room. The robots
are nothing is changing. Okay, the
physical environment is not changing at
all.
>> [laughter]
>> The so like that like it is not at all
the same stack that brought you
autonomous cars that will bring you
autonomous labs. That's not my problem.
Okay. So so in my world it's the
variability in like what the scientist
is asking for that makes it hard, right?
So they're like I want to use this piece
of equipment. I want to use that piece
of equipment. This is my combination of
things, right? And so one of your big
problems is getting a thousand long tail
pieces of third party like you can't
believe the software on these things
benchtop lab equipment
integrated into one big system so that
they all can be controlled by your
software. That's like problem number
one. It's like integration of benchtop
equipment. Problem number two, what are
we doing with our hands when we do
science? Largely in bio anyway, it's
liquid handling.
So you pick up a pipette which is like
if you didn't do this in high school
it's like the world's fanciest straw and
you like suck up a little bit of liquid
and you squirt it out in the right spot
and like but the thing is if the liquid
is viscous like it's like syrup then if
you you naturally with your thumb like
adjust the pressure of the straw cuz you
can see with your eye if it's working or
not. So that's actually liquid handling
turns out to be a trickier like problem
than you think and you are doing some
work as the human to like manage that.
So you have two big buckets. One solve
liquid handling. Two
send samples to a thousand different
pieces of equipment. Does that make
sense? If you nail those two
you're done. And so and and yeah.
Tractable. It is [__] tractable.
Yeah, yeah yeah agree. Yeah, it's
totally tractable. And so it's just
a lot of work. All right. And so yeah.
>> like working through that?
I think we basically have it working.
Yeah, that's the honest truth. I mean we
we basically got it working.
>> like major hurdle?
One reason it's hard for people to do
this technically is they want to build
the hardware
but they don't do research.
So they kind of have to go to a customer
and be like hey, you want to use my
robot? That's what it's like no.
>> [laughter]
>> Right? Like they're at the bench they're
like no I'm you know, I'm not going to
try. You're like so there's like an
adoption issue that I think has made it
really hard and and so we have this
advantage that because we have a
research we still have our original
business Yep. which was research
partnerships which we still do means I
have a bunch of scientists employed at
Ginkgo.
These scientists are basically like
remember the Google engineers who had
like sit with their hands like this next
to the wheel five seven years ago in
Palo Alto like grabbing it if it like
the Waymo drove into a mailbox or
something, right? Like that's my
scientist today. So they are they are
dog fooding on our we have like 50
robots we're going to 100 in our big lab
in Boston and so they're the ones like
trying out and breaking it. Things that
have broken. Um
running a bunch of work in parallel
across that system is a scheduling
challenge. So you know, you have to be
able to manage all that. So like the the
just the handling the scheduling with
tight timing on experiments is like
algorithmically tricky and we've had to
figure out a bunch of stuff.
Getting the equipment to work all like
when it works all day long making that
reliable compared to it's being barely
used at the lab bench that's tricky.
Right? So there's just these like things
that we have to keep knocking down but
they're they're engineering at this
point.
>> you solved like pipetting and liquid
handling? Yeah, the good thing is
there's a there is a whole industry
that's worked on that problem like
liquid handling robotics. Okay.
It's just a matter of having like all
the different liquid handlers. And and
if you have them all you can kind of and
you know, your your liquid class you're
dealing with you can manage it. Oh, one
other one big one.
Scientists don't code. Yep. Okay. So
oh cool use my robot. This is what
everybody's done. They've made like
visual programming languages like if
you're a scientist there's a thing
called LabVIEW it's like complete trash
but like it's you know, make a flow
chart, right? Cuz you can't write Python
or whatever. Horrible. Okay, like even
that they hate. Okay, right? And so no
one will program chat. And I and so we
ran into this issue where we now have
all these scientists using the
automation directly. So like I don't
know three weeks ago or something we had
two
two instances where we sent a plate so
like again this is like kind of bunch of
little wells with liquids in them and it
and we seal the plate when we put it in
storage so it doesn't evaporate.
So they sent a sealed plate to the
pipetting robot and pipette comes down
and it gets stuck in the seal. You're
like and people on our slack are like
hey, what the hell, you know, like
de-seal the plate before you send it to
the liquid handler dum dum, right? Like
you know, and it's like and this is
horrible for a scientist who has
basically an expert at liquid handling
at the bench and now they're like making
like you know, basic mistakes here and
they feel horrible. That's a bad UI.
Okay. And and I was just like this is
nonsense.
We're from now on only what the way
we're going to interact with writing the
code is through Claude code or Codex.
Yep. Like you will now submit a written
protocol what you want and the model
will figure it out. And if the model
sends a plate sealed we will update the
skills file and it will never do it
again and we will get through this. Um
smart.
>> so and so that is a big win for
usability of robotics for scientists is
what's happening with with Claude code
and Codex. Does that make sense? That
does make sense. So like thank you. You
know, right? Like so these are the
things that that's that like that had to
get knocked down, too. And so all this
is in flight. But like right now in
Boston is like a very unique experiment
experiment happening where we have like
50 scientists submitting jobs into one
big robotic setup that exists nowhere
else on the planet right now. So it's
pretty neat to watch it. That's cool.
>> see a future for humanoids? No.
Really?
>> lab?
>> Cuz cuz
the best argument I've heard for
humanoids is like the world the physical
world is designed for them.
>> And like I would think that the existing
labs are made for like humans walking
around pipetting things walking between
different machines.
>> Yeah. And so you could you you try to
create a robotic arm that's able to like
you know, orchestrate all this or you
could just have a humanoid do what a
human lab scientist does. Yeah. Um so
again like like the primary thing that
the human is doing is moving samples
around the the environment.
>> Yeah. Um there are much better ways to
do that than like walk them bipedally
among things. You just put them on a
track. Like our system has like a nice
little track and the the plates move
with extremely high liability they get
delivered with micron specificity to
where they are. The arm picks them up.
It's like you know, that problem just
disappears. Okay. And then the other
reason is in the long run the humans are
the limitation. Yeah. Right? It's not
like oh is our our humanoid robots going
to disrupt TSMC? Are they going to go in
there and etch the the [__] chips?
Like obviously not. You know, right?
Like you
>> [laughter]
>> like like no. It's a microscopic
discipline. Like biology is a
microscopic discipline. Like these
things are
no. [laughter] They makes no sense.
Does how does it change the unit of
scale for a lab? Like I'm I'm imagining
that labs in the future are going to be
these enormous things the way the data
centers have become these enormous
things. So it's actually going to make
them smaller. Really? Okay.
>> Yeah. Because again you've probably not
seen this but like if you were to walk
through Merck's campus, you'll see a
million square feet of laboratory
benches across a bunch of different
buildings everywhere, whatever, right?
And they're they're set up for basically
humans to be able to walk in and find a
piece of equipment
again, underutilized, but basically
available whenever they need it to run
whatever experiment they've come up with
by thinking over the last 2 weeks and
not even working in the lab. And so like
that kind of like cycling is is kind of
how it operates. And you need it local.
Like if you have a team now in this new
place cuz you bought this company, they
need a lab. So you replicate another
lab, right? The labs have to go wherever
your scientists are.
Well, let's now instead imagine the
scientists are ordering all their
experimental work through computers
and it's going to some centralized
autonomous lab. You can think of that
like a local cloud if you want, okay?
Well, now you don't need a lab where the
scientists are. So you get you got to
get rid of all the just duplication that
you have because of physical people. You
also get wildly better utilization of
the benchtop equipment. Like we're
talking going from like sub-20%
utilization at the bench to like 70%. So
now you need less equipment.
And then assuming you didn't decide to
have humanoids, like you can just jam it
all in around a track system, so it's
actually a lot tighter.
Yeah, so we have like a major space
reduction at the moment. That's one of
the big savings. Like when we talked to
like we just sold 97 robots to the
Department of Energy for this like
Genesis mission. This is like the AI for
science thing that Trump's doing and
like that is basically going to be
ultimately much more dense than the
equivalent set of labs would have been
that would have like housed that
otherwise. part of the sales pitch. It's
like you could
have less spending. Remember I told you
earlier like the spending is not on the
reagents, it's on basically like roof
space, like laboratory space and and
people. What is the unit of work? You
said you sold 97 robots. Is that 97
boxes? Is that Yeah, so our our
particular device and we call it a rack.
It's like a reconfigurable automation
cart. It's basically like a box that has
a piece of benchtop equipment in it, a
six-axis robotic arm. This is like
nothing special for labs. This is like
traditional This is like coming out of
manufacturing tech. And then a piece of
maglev track. And what you do is you
Lego block the carts. So we have like 50
of them all together in our lab in
Boston and then a a sample can move on
the track and in front of every piece of
equipment is an arm. And the arm picks
it up and puts it on the equipment.
Okay.
>> And so our unit is we sell the box, we
sell like a subscription basically like
service fee plus software subscription
for per box.
And then eventually what I want to sell
is like automation-friendly reagents.
Yep. Because that's kind of like the
usage pricing. So that that would be my
That's like one half of my business now
is like I'll build you an autonomous
lab.
You know, Pacific Northwest National
Lab, DOE or Merck or whoever. Does that
make sense? And then the other half is
what you said. I'll run my lab in Boston
as a cloud and you could just order from
it.
>> Yeah, totally.
Can we talk about training? Like a lot
of what we've talked been talking about
to me seems like inference. Like it's a
it's a use case of the reasoning. Seems
to me that you have you are generating
an enormously helpful data set here that
should be used to like back prop into
the weights themselves.
>> Yeah. How's that going to play out?
That's a good question.
Um
I don't know yet. I I think I think
there'll be one training So there's two
there's different levels of challenges.
One was the thing I mentioned earlier.
Like you're submitting
a piece of physical work. And again, I
think this applies to labs. This will
also apply in like light manufacturing.
Right? Like you want to do a slight Oh,
you're like a a prototyping shop or
whatever. Any place where there's like
variability. Okay? And so I see a lot of
variable requests from scientists. I see
all the edge cases of how it breaks the
physical equipment. Yeah. That you can't
like compile out. Oh, make a digital
twin. No. Like, you know, right? Like
like you have to like actually do this
stuff.
>> [laughter]
>> Like I do not think like I like I don't
buy it, right? Like like a lot of it's
edge casey, you know,
liquid classes. You can't really pick it
up on a camera. There's just like all
this stuff that are like the edge cases
that Waymo had to see driving around are
edge cases we see by doing a lot of
variable work on the same system. That
is one type of training. I don't know
that it's fully like model training as
much as it probably is just like a giant
file or something, but like that's one.
Does that make sense?
The bigger one is sort of
the model's ability to take your intent
and turn it into an experimental plan.
And that's interesting. That's back to
like could these things just like blow
science out of the water? And and and
that I think you could have a really
cool loop that has more to do with the
results of every experiment. Like it's
opening eye project. Like as we saw what
experiments worked and didn't, you could
theoretically then teach the the model
to be a better scientist. It's like
Newton, Einstein. Like, you know, like
these are the people that moved the
species forward at the end of the day,
right? Like everything else is kind of
noise. Like we're just running around
circles. You know, like the Romans did
it. You know, right? Like we're just
doing the same stuff, right? The the the
Greeks. But but except for science.
Right? Does that make sense? And and so
I do think this is like if you crack
that nut, like if you can if models plus
again, I think you got to have the
experimental work. If that really
10x's or 100x's the speed we do
scientific discovery, like
that 10x's or 100x's the progress of the
species in my view. It just seems to me
that the results of what you're
generating in the lab needs to feed back
into updating the model weights somehow.
Otherwise, we're not going to get to
that point. I agree, but I think that's
totally doable. Like I think that loop
and I think this is something that the
frontier models are starting to care
about. Like like getting better at that
I do think is is again, in my view, some
of the most important part of human
intelligence is our ability to push the
frontier of knowledge.
I mean spreadsheets are cool, too. You
know, right? Like doing back office for
a dentist also fine. You know, right?
Like you can make money with that. But
like if we really want them to be smart,
this is this is where it matters the
most. I agree.
You mentioned Project Genesis earlier.
>> Yeah. What is it? Why does it matter?
Yeah, so this is came out of
White House and OSTP. So the Office of
Science and Technology Policy like my
friend Chris is there. And and
and so it's run by the Department of
Energy.
And that's in part cuz like Department
of Energy is and if you're a science
nerd, that's where we do like our big
science projects. Okay. So like starting
with the Manhattan Project, but also
like the Human Genome Project actually
was like a Department of Energy project.
So when it's like project-based, it kind
of tends to live in Department of Energy
and like more open-ended science is like
the National Science Foundation. Okay,
so DOE's running it, so it's a project.
And so they're like, all right, great.
We're going to have a list and they
actually put out a list of like these
are areas where we would like to see
breakthroughs that are relevant for the
American public. Okay? And one of
them's, you know, a couple of them are
bio-related, but there's other stuff,
too. Material science, new energy, all
these different things, right? And then
what we want to do is bring AI models
into the national labs, which is where
we do a lot of our
big science in the country, and
accelerate them. And their target is to
double the acceleration of science in
the next few years. All right? So that's
the idea. And so one way you're going to
do it is they want to take the existing
data that is at the national labs and
like basically feed it into models and
see if you can find new stuff from data
we've already collected. But then the
other way they want to do it is to have
autonomous labs that can generate new
data in the direction of models. And
that was And so when we we did that deal
with Department of Energy, Secretary the
Department of Energy Secretary Wright
and I like ribbon cut the first 18
robots up in Washington. You like signed
it. It was really cool. And and so like
I think that's a to me again as a
science nerd, like that's a good push
for us.
And I think you want to see some good
results soon because ultimately they got
to, you know, Congress has to get
excited about this. You you would need
like a bigger bolus of money in the
future, right? To really make it a big
deal. But I like what they're doing.
Like I think it's Well, in in in the
dream scenario, what does that do for
America?
So I I chaired this National Security
Commission on Emerging Biotech in DC for
like 2 years and Senator Young in
Indiana chairs it now. And there was a
similar one on AI that Eric Schmidt
chaired like 7 years ago. So it was
super fascinating to see like like learn
more about DC, number one, Congress. And
but also like the point is how does the
US stay competitive in technology areas
that are strategic?
And so there's one for cyber like 15
years ago or something. There was AI and
then this was on on bioengineering,
biotech.
We have had an unfair advantage like
since the Soviet Union fell basically
where like we were automatically at the
lead in science.
Like there was no one else that had the
money
to spend on science basically. And
because in science it's like it's not
just spending on the science.
You also need scientists. So you have to
have research universities to train
these people. Like it is esoteric.
So that was true. That was true. And now
with China's rise, it's not true. Right?
Like they're actually like if you look
at the number of like scientific papers
published, it's more from China now. If
you look at in my world like biotech
drugs, not manufacturing drugs, like
making new drugs,
the way it works in this in our industry
is like a startup discovers a drug and
then they try to sell it to Merck or
Pfizer and they're the they're the kind
of go-to-market channel. And Merck or
Pfizer buys it for 2 billion or 5
billion or 10 billion depending on where
it is in like clinical trials.
Great.
3 years ago, less than 5% from China.
Last quarter, 40% plus. Wow. Okay? Yeah.
So we And that's innovation. That's like
discovery, right? So we're And why is
it? Why are why are there why is that
growing so fast in China?
They have just as many scientists as us.
They're just as smart as our scientists.
They get paid less.
And remember, it's like a hands in the
lab. You got to do Science is driven by
experimental work. So if you now have
more experimentalists
in China and you get more research per
dollar, I don't see why they don't win
in research. Yeah. And so so from my
standpoint, we need to we need to make
this change both in how we do
experimental work and bring in like the
AIs to just increase our amount of like
intellectual horsepower if we're going
to keep up in science. And you don't
want to be surprised. Right? Like if you
know like DARPA, like the you know, like
the thanks for the internet, DARPA.
Right? Like the the founding point of
DARPA was like after Sputnik when the
Russians like were the first ones to put
a satellite up and it was created to say
like we will not be technologically
surprised again. Mhm.
It's behind-the-scenes thing, but it is
very important, right? It's really scary
if you get technologically surprised.
And so, I think that that is why it's I
think important from a national security
standpoint, important for the country,
important for the species is to is the
the rate at which we get scientific
discovery. Does that make sense? Yep.
Other thing I'm curious I want to ask
you guys about.
I mean, God bless Sam and this freaking
OpenAI thing, but like, you know, when
they started that, it was like a
pie-in-the-sky research project. Yeah,
yeah. Right? This is like almost like
Bell Labs-y kind of, you know, like,
whatever, like, go for it. Everyone's
like, it's [__] Oh, what is this?
Nonprofit. All that Okay. But, here we
go. It's now worth what? What was the
last round done at? Half a trillion or
something? Great. 830 million. All
right. So, so
>> [laughter]
>> I I To me, it signals um
in fundamental research
in industry can be valuable. Yep. And I
think that's also a thing that we've
kind of forgotten about
over the last 30, 40 years, cuz so much
of like where the money was was just
like engineering, engineering,
engineering, and it wasn't really about
trying something that was just like,
this probably not going to work, but we
should give it a try. Pharma has been
like that, but lots of the rest of the
economy has not. Does that make sense?
Yep. And I wonder if that's going to
change.
Like, I'm curious if you think like
I don't know, every big industry, like,
you know, the chemical industry. Like,
like, should everyone just get back be
like, well, based on these models and
like some acceleration in science, like,
actually the most valuable thing Dow
Chemical could do would be some [__]
crazy breakthrough. Mhm. Not
uh you know, let's do another chemical
plan or run the numbers on like putting
something in Louisiana. But, like, you
know, like, but like, actually like, no,
no, we're going to like
go for it.
You see that at all? Like, you know,
like, like, do you do you like like do
you like you know, I don't know. But,
but that would be like one of my naive
hopes is
the industrial side of the house wakes
back up on doing research. Yeah.
So, yeah, I know you have a point of
view on this. I would say we've seen a
few of these. I mean, you mentioned Chai
earlier.
>> Yeah. I think it's likely to come from
researchers on the research side of the
house that are, you know, fundamentally
re- thinking, for example, the protein
design process. Um I think it's
My my gut instinct is more likely to
come from folks like that who are just
taking really big swings. Um and the
tricky thing is just the the song and
dance of how they get funded, especially
through we're still in biotech winter.
Sure. Right? And like, how do they even
prove out to the world that like, hey,
we have better discovery engines, we
have we have better candidates? Cuz I
think it was like a real problem in in
the biotech world is asymmetric
information, and you're like, you can't
tell. Yeah. Um feels Google with
Isomorphic feels like the closest cuz
it's actually got deep pockets behind
it. Um to actually prove that story up.
But, yeah, my bet would be a vertically
integrated research team um taking big
swings. Yeah. Yeah, the challenge is
like funding these companies all the way
through. Well, and I think um
to the point on
should there be more breakthroughs, more
fundamental research? I think the answer
is unequivocally yes. Like, that is one
of the wonderful dividends, so to speak,
that's going to come out of this whole
AI wave.
>> Yeah. And I think
phase one is sort of becoming
human-level intelligent across a bunch
of different categories. And I think
that will largely go to just doing the
things that we do today better, faster,
cheaper.
I think phase two is going to be
becoming superintelligent across
specific categories, one at a time.
>> Yeah. And that's where all the
breakthroughs are going to come from.
>> Yeah. And I feel like we're kind of in
this transition phase where we're
getting to the point of human-level
intelligence across a bunch of different
things. Yeah. We're about to start being
superintelligent in a bunch of different
things.
>> Yeah. And we're about to start seeing a
bunch of breakthroughs. Yeah. And so, I
I I think it's like we're within months
or years of it becoming really
interesting.
>> I'll give you an example. Like, we just
backed this team that did the AlphaChip
project at Google. So,
they like they're using AI systems to
actually just design chips that perform
better than what human chip designers
can do. And so, like, I think we're
going to see these pocket pockets of
superintelligence in different corners
of industry. And there's What was What
was the AlphaGo move 38 or whatever? 37.
Yeah. 37. Okay. I always forget the
number. I know. I thought it was like
83. Yeah, 37. Great. Yes. Like, move 37.
>> Right. Yes. Yeah. [laughter] Like, that
kind of stuff. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, if that's true, right?
Like, and and I think there's two ways
to get at it, by the way. My secret on
this would be One is the thing you're
saying, like, it's going to be
superintelligence, right?
It'll intuit something that a person
wouldn't have.
And then
like I really think if you can solve the
problem of greatly accelerating the
experimental work, it's almost the same.
Yeah, the combinatorial approach. It's
You know, like, the you can't Some of
these A lot of the the physical world
stuff is not
simulatable. Yeah.
>> Right? And so, the it's just can you run
that machine faster? And then,
importantly, like you're saying, like,
can can you feed it back and make it
smarter based on what it's actually
seeing in the world? And that that Okay,
like
And then and then I think you if you're
if you start to be believe you can get
those breakthroughs, I think you have to
ask, what's the how do you commercialize
Like, what's venture look like in that
scenario? Yeah. Right? Because you're
like, oh, great a crazy I got this
insane break You know, we got a
room-temperature semiconductor, right?
Or, you know, right? Like, like, now
what? Right? And is it like you go to
you go to the big guys, you do it
yourself, right? Like, there's a whole
thing there I think is fascinating.
>> Yeah, we we had this conversation the
other day on
will the venture capital industry shrink
because the cost of producing everything
gets cheaper because it becomes so much
more efficient. Yeah. And if we
analogize back to the cloud transition
when all of a sudden you didn't have to
build your own data centers, you could
just spin up a cloud service.
>> Yeah. You might have thought the same
thing would happen, but actually the
opposite happened. There was this
explosion in creation Yeah. which made
distribution that much more competitive.
Yeah. And so, there were a million
different companies, but then all of
them had to fight so hard to like break
through the noise.
>> Yeah. And I would I would I would guess
the same thing happens, which is the
cost of creation goes down and down and
down.
>> Yeah. The cost of distribution goes up
cuz there are just so many different
things out there.
>> That's interesting. Yeah, that could be
right. Yeah.
Do you think language-based foundation
models are the right substrates, or do
you think somebody's going to train like
a, you know, ACTG native model? Yeah, so
so that is like the Arcs Evo is an ACTG
native model. Yeah. Right? So, it's
trained on a trillion bases of DNA. And
and I think that's awesome, right? I
think it's super exciting. I think it
will apply. It'll be like a tool
available to the reasoning model to do
its job. Yeah.
Right? Like, the reasoning model working
on, say, our our even our OpenAI project
could go access AlphaFold, design a
protein, get it synthesized, as add that
as a reagent into the project. Like,
that's allowable, right? And so, I I
think those will end up being powerful
tools,
but I still think
I'm I think the reasoning models are
really they can do the job of an
experimental scientist. And so, now we
have like a thousand experimental
scientists in a box.
>> Yeah.
That that's already true. I don't need
like a miracle, right? Like, that's um
and and yeah.
So, here's the question. Yeah.
AlphaFold, all these all these papers
have come out on how AI is changing drug
drug discovery. Do you think the pace of
drug discovery has actually accelerated
or not? Okay, yeah. So, let's nerd out
now on like what the hell you [laughter]
can actually do with bio, which is like
a pile of trash all the time, right?
Okay. So, so, so so like bio is right
like it like I think the down so God
bless. Like, I basically, you know,
Jurassic Park came out when I was 13.
All I want to do in life is like make
Jurassic Park. Genetic [laughter]
engineering is awesome, right? Like,
like, that's why I'm here. Did you see
that company that brought back the
woolly mammoth?
>> Yes, yes, I know them well. Yeah. They
have a banner over there. [laughter]
Colossal. Yeah, that's great. I I love
that stuff, right? They haven't brought
back the woolly mammoth yet, but they
brought back a direwolf. Oh, a direwolf,
sorry. Mammoth is coming, so I'm sure.
The uh but yes, okay, right? So, but
really what I'm excited about
is like the ability for
you know, kids someday to design biology
like they program computers. Mhm. Right?
Like, that is what I want. Like, that's
the world I want to exist. And so, the
question is like, how the hell do you
get there? And
one of the issues we have in programming
biology, designing DNA, genetic
engineering, whatever you want call it
is that the only working app ecosystem
is therapeutics. Mhm. Mhm. There is like
85% of the market for biotechnology is
therapeutics, and then there's like 10%
is ag. Remember Monsanto? Ooh, boogity
boogity. Right? Like, like, that's
that's genetic engineering in plants.
And then there's like 5% that's like
industrial. Like, you when you have cold
water laundry detergent. That's a
product about it biotechnology. There's
enzymes in there that break up dirt
without you having to make your laundry
hot. And so, that was the That's 5%.
That is the totality of apps we've come
up with so far for programmable matter
compilers.
I.e., cells.
It's embarrassing. Okay, right? Like,
like, the the the fundamentals of the
But, if but again, like, let's imagine
computers, the only application for
computers
was drug discovery.
We'd all be like, well, there's so you
know, man, such a pain in the ass with
these computers, right? Like, you know,
and so, so, so there there is like a
distinction between like what we're
really working on at Ginko and you know,
other places like us, which is like, how
do you really make it easier and faster
and cheaper to just design biology, make
it do new things? And then the fact of
the matter being that the only apps that
really like have ROI are drugs.
>> Yep. Okay. And drugs have like annoying
features.
The biggest one being like the time it
takes from like inception of the drug to
making money Mhm. is a killer. And and
it has to do with regulatory, basically.
Like, it's like, well, we don't like to
stick things in people. Yeah, be
careful. Like, all that stuff is fine.
And and then we can get faster on that.
Like, China's also eating our lunch.
Like, you might have seen this, but
like, they can do a trial in 6 months.
It takes us like 2 and 1/2 years. Like,
like, for like phase one, it's crazy.
Australia is actually eating our lunch.
I think our FDA will just match
Australia's soon, which is great. So,
so, we will get faster, but it's still
not like launching a phone app. Okay?
And so, that Does that make sense? So
that does remain like a like a problem,
I would say.
We try There's been a bunch of other
attempts at other things, you know, like
animal-free meat and like like it's
never quite been good enough to like
disrupt another industry yet. Um
I would love to see that happen. That
would be a big accelerant not just for
whatever industry, but ultimately for
genetic engineering and then if you
accelerate genetic engineering, you you
try to create that flywheel that we got
in computers or keeps going going. Now,
that said,
it
to pick our app of drugs, it has gotten
more expensive to develop drugs not less
year-over-year for the last 25 years.
So that's not great. That's the opposite
of what should be happening, right? And
so And why is that?
Because we do it manually.
That's my opinion. We have We have not
like and and which is like Baumol's cost
disease or whatever, like the scientists
are getting more expensive, the rent is
getting more expensive.
That's it. They're actually more
productive. Like we we give them new
tools. Like we are getting like slightly
better, but the majority of the cost is
manual work.
That [__] does not get cheaper. And so
so that is what I think is the root of
it actually. And that's why you see me
15 years into this being like
retrenching to solve that problem first
because I don't believe we really get
out of the mud until we've got the
people out of the lab.
Then from that base, we can start to
climb out. Right? Now it's fully
automated, you can do all kinds of crazy
stuff. But eventually, it looks like
chips someday, right? It's like alien
technology, you know, you're do doing it
in some way that humans never Remember
before chips was vacuum tubes. It was
like human scale electronics. And then
we we were like, okay, cool, like let's
get you know, we we we saw the curve
that will happen for lab work and
genetic engineering, I promise you. But
the first step is like put down the
vacuum tubes, right? Like get onto some
system that does not need people in the
middle. Does that make sense? How does
the application space change?
I don't know. That's very unpredictable.
Well, well, I'll tell you some things I
think I'm excited I'm excited about the
near term.
You're familiar with like the GLP-1
drugs, right? They're worth close to a
trillion dollars. That's great. Like
that that is in my opinion like a
consumer product.
I'm
I'm on the clips. It's awesome.
It is like the best thing since the
iPhone. You don't have to think about
food. It's like you get like you get to
spend your day thinking about work or
kids or whatever else you want to do.
You don't have to like think about oh, I
got to intermittent fast through lunch
or I'm going to be obese, right? Like
you can like
>> [laughter]
>> you can just get your willpower back.
It's awesome. Okay, right? Awesome. But
that's to me a The reason it's worth so
much money is because it's not treating
a disease, right? Like the the the
biotech industry the therapeutic
industry today is really the disease
industry.
Right? And how much of your life And
again, depends on the person, but how
much of your life do you have a disease?
It's like a small amount of of the time.
How much of your life do you want to
like weigh 15 lbs less? How much of your
life do you want to sleep better? How
much of your life do you want to have
more muscles? How much of your life do
you want to feel better? Like like the
the applications in the consumer space
for biotech are bananas.
Oh, it adds 2 years to your lifespan.
What's that worth?
Like what is the value
of a biotech product that adds 5 years
to lifespan?
This is Sequoia Capital. Throw a number
at it.
Depends on your customer. 50 trillion?
Like it's like it's it's infinity. There
There's no limit on the value of
something that would like stack extra of
years of healthy life on the people's
life. Like that's nuts. Right? Like you
know, like we that's effectively what
our health care system is trying to do
and it's like think of like the total
consumption cost of that, right? So if
you could have that in a pill, in a
shot.
So so that that But right now today, we
don't even have a good pathway to get
something like that approved,
right? Because all of the regulatory the
FDA and everything is is oriented around
treating disease.
And this is actually where like all the
people are like oh my ba ba ba. Like
like I think like that that line of the
Maha thing which is like hey, actually
it's about not just about disease, but
about being healthy
when you don't have disease,
I I think it's really good. Like I think
that's a really good thing for the
industry.
And so I do think you'll see that that
set of things happen. And so that's one
half is like new drugs there. And then
the other one, well, our first investor
out of YC, do you know who it was?
Angel?
Mr. Bryan Johnson. Okay, back when he
was like, you know,
yeah, yeah. But he was like pudgy VC
Bryan. Oh, yeah, of course. Yeah,
uh-huh. Not not like you know, longevity
like you know, Jesus. Yeah, back when
yeah, when he was like a normal normal
person, right? Like
not like Jack. He's awesome now, right?
Like the the And so but like
what he's done
What's interesting about what Bryan's
done is he has normalized the
monitoring. Like cuz I asked him, I was
like, how are you you know, like these
are like all these interventions. Like
you're a
Like well, you know, like like Bryan's
got a good life, you know, like would
you be like oh, you're taking some
random thing and trying it out? Like
isn't that scary? And he's like, well,
I'm monitoring all the time.
Right? So like every week he's like
taking all these tests and everything
else. He's like the most measured
person. $2 million a year of of
diagnostic stuff, right? Like
that is the other area. So like oh, we
all love our Oura rings and everything.
This is pathetic. Okay, right? Like it's
great. Your heart rate. It's like
telling you nothing. All right? Like
like the real Now, I love Oura by the
way. I've had this thing for 10 years.
But like the real meat of what's going
on inside your body is molecular. Yeah.
So what we really should be doing is
like taking a blood sample every week
and giving you like a whole read out of
a ton of stuff
like longitudinally over time so that
you can try different interventions for
you
and see you how it affects you
molecularly cuz that's what actually
matters. Like molecularly like aging is
molecular, right? It's not your [__]
whatever. The the And so so like that
whole world
and stuff like functions getting going
and doing Quest tests. Like I mean my
god, I did it over Christmas, but it's
like 10 vials. It's like the worst
experience in the entire world, right?
Like like that
Yeah, but it but it's but it's so early,
right? That's my point. Like so I think
that line is another place that could be
a big If you're asking about near end
apps for biotech, that one is the other
one, right? And so I think I think you
could see that. I think you could see
other things like the clips. Those are
ones I'm excited about. And then I'm
always hopeful
something like that. Yes, you know,
right? Like like there'll just be some
other weird thing.
And and we did just launch a cloud lab
service Igen go where you can
like we have experiments as cheap as $39
that you can just run and we don't send
you anything. Like we won't send you a
sample, but we will send you back data.
So it's like you do the experiment, we
run the experiment for you, you got the
data back, right? And so my my last
point on this one
is like
I think if you like science is thought
of as this very like precious genius
thing, but really what it is is like
formalized human curiosity. It's like a
process by which humans of which all of
us are curious about things
like do curiosity right. Like really try
to answer our curiosity. Does that make
sense? And I and I think everybody's
curious. And so I believe that if you
drop the cost of like like like a lot of
what blocks people from science is
actually not like the esotericness of
it. It's in my view the lab.
It is that that is brutal, right? Like
you don't have access A, it is a total
gate-kept. Like you cannot get access to
one. It like almost legally you can't
get access to one, right? Like And so
there's just this whole thing. And and
I'm like, well, what if that went away?
What if people everyday people could
could order an experiment? What if the
model would help them design the
experiment to ask a question that they
have about the world? Would they
suddenly ask questions and do these
experiments? Would they be Would
everybody Would millions of people want
to be scientists? And I know that sounds
like well, that's nuts, ba ba ba. But
like if you rewind the clock, God bless
Silicon Valley in the computer industry
to the 1960s
when it was IBM and it was mainframes
and you told people
that kids
would program computers, they would say
you're [__] insane.
And so I believe if you do manage to
drop the cost of all this stuff, you may
have kids and everybody else wanting to
just ask original scientific questions
and being able to do it. And that would
be a cool market, right? Like And so
anyway, that that
All this stuff I feel is on the other
side of of getting the say I for science
stuff working, but I'm excited about it.
Extremely cool vision for the future.
Great notes end on. Thank you. Very
inspiring. Thanks for having me on.
>> [music]
[music]